
## peercoin-daemon
Peercoind is headless (no GUI) wallet and client for peercoin network. This package is
created by Jashandeep-Sohi and found in AUR (Arch User Repository).
https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/nud

Original author did not update it since v0.3.

### Intro:
This package configures peercoin-daemon according to “principle of least privilege”. 
The principle means giving a user account only those privileges which are essential to that 
user's work and thus limiting deamons effect on the system.

Original author described it like this:

> “The traditional way of running bitcoind and other bitcoind derivatives (i.e. nud) is
to run it as the user you are logged on as. This is how the daemon is designed to be run,
but it's a security risk, especially if you take into account that these are relatively new
software and in the case of nud it's currently being developed by one person in
private and the source of this package is directly from a git repository. This isn't to say
that nud is malicious and is going to steal your files, but it's just that it's new and
hasn't had a rigorous code review, so I'd rather be safe than sorry and would run it as a
separate user.”

> “So, this package sets up nud in such a way that it runs (when using systemd) using
a separate user, named 'nud'. This user has it's home directory at /var/lib/nud
and that's where the various files generated by nud reside, with the exception of
the conf file which is in /etc/peercoin/peercoin.conf.”
Essentially this package uses traditional unix privileges system to separate nud from
other users and the system, limiting the vectors of attack if the daemon is compromised.
Ppcoind user is in “dummy” user, with no authority on the system. This user and it's files
reside in /var/lib/nud.

In conventional setup, if daemon is run as user “Bob” when daemon is compromised
daemon is equal to user “Bob” and can do as much damage Bob can do.
However, with this setup with dummy user if daemon is compromised it can not really do
anything outside /var/lib/nud/. Thus, system and it's users are safe.
This same "DAC" (Discretionary access control) based principe of security is widly used with unix
type systems and it used to secure web servers like ngix or lighttpd.


How to use nud:

> $ systemctl start nud.service

> $ systemctl enable nud.service (to start on boot)


The daemon conf file is at /etc/peercoin/peercoin.conf. 
Yet again you see it is completely
detached from nud user.
To access the daemon as user “Bob” you need ~/.nu/nud.conf, but containing
only RPC username and password to authorize RPC calls.

As user: 
> nud getinfo

To pass extra arguments to daemon at startup see /etc/conf.d/nud.conf, the file itself is well documented.
